W-10804205-dw-testing-v2.4-cv (#116)
mulesoft/docs-dataweave: modules/ROOT/pages/dw-test-asserts.adoc

= dw::test::Asserts

> This module contains the set of core Matchers to use in your tests

Reviewer: Should "Matchers" be capitalized?

=== Example

==== Source

[source,DataWeave, linenums]
----
%dw 2.0
import dw::tests::Asserts
---
payload must beObject()
----

> Validates if a payload is of type Object

Reviewer: Description is below the example. Should it go above and be full sentence?

== Functions

=== anyOf

==== anyOf(matchers: Array<Matcher<Any>>): Matcher<Any>

> Validates that the value satisfies at least one of the given matchers

Reviewer: Needs a period.

===== Parameters

[%header, cols="1,3"]
|===
| Name   | Description
| matchers | The list of matchers to be tested.
|===

===== Example

This example shows how to assert that a value must be either an `Object` or a `String`.

====== Source

[source,DataWeave, linenums]
----
%dw 2.0
import dw::tests::Asserts
---
"A Text" must anyOf(beObject(), beString())
----

=== beArray

==== beArray(): Matcher

> Validates that a given value is of type Array

Reviewer: Needs a period at end here an elsewhere

===== Example

> This example shows how to validate that a value is of type 'Array'

Reviewer: Same re missing period.

====== Source

[source,DataWeave, linenums]
----
%dw 2.0
import dw::tests::Asserts
---
[1, 4, 7] must beArray()
----

=== beBlank

==== beBlank(): Matcher<String | Null>

Validates that the String value is blank

===== Example

Validates that the `String` is empty or has whitespaces

====== Source
[source,DataWeave, linenums]
----
%dw 2.0
import dw::tests::Asserts
---
"  " must beBlank()
----

=== beBoolean

==== beBoolean(): Matcher

Validates that a given value is of type Boolean

===== Example

This example shows how to validate that a value is of type `Boolean`

====== Source

[source,DataWeave, linenums]
----
%dw 2.0
import dw::tests::Asserts
---
true must beBoolean()
----

=== beEmpty

==== beEmpty(): Matcher<String | Object | Array | Null>

> Validates that the value (String, Object or Array) is empty

Reviewer: Object, or Array

Reviewer: period

===== Example

Validates that the `Array` is of size `0`

====== Source

[source,DataWeave, linenums]
----
%dw 2.0
import dw::tests::Asserts
---
[] must beEmpty()
----

=== beGreaterThan

==== beGreaterThan(expected: Comparable, inclusive: Boolean = false): Matcher<Comparable>

Validates that the asserted Comparable value is greater than the given one

>  Can be equal to when using the _inclusive_ argument

Reviewer: What can be equal to? Extra space before "Can". Period.

===== Parameters

[%header, cols="1,3"]
|===
| Name   | Description
| expected | The number to compare to

> | inclusive | If it is inclusive or not (Optional) false by default

Reviewer: If what is? Punctuation issues.

|===

===== Example

> Expects a `Number` to be bigger than `2`

Reviewer: bigger -> greater

====== Source

[source,DataWeave, linenums]
----
%dw 2.0
import dw::tests::Asserts
---
3 must beGreaterThan(2)
----

===== Example

Expects a `Number` to be bigger or equal than `2`

====== Source

[source,DataWeave, linenums]
----
%dw 2.0
import dw::tests::Asserts
---
3 must beGreaterThan(2, true)
----

=== beLowerThan

==== beLowerThan(expected: Comparable, inclusive: Boolean = false): Matcher<Comparable>

> Validates that the asserted Comparable value is lower than the given one

Reviewer: lower than -> less than

> Can be equal to when using the _inclusive_ argument

Reviewer: what can be equal to?

===== Parameters

[%header, cols="1,3"]
|===
| Name   | Description
| expected | The number to compare to

> | inclusive | If it is inclusive or not (Optional) false by default

Reviewer: if what is inclusive or not

= dw::test::Asserts

This module contains the set of core matchers to use in your tests.

=== Example

> The following example validates if a payload is of type Object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example validates if a payload is of type `Object`.
```

Reviewer: change is for consistency with the other types below

==== Source

[source,DataWeave, linenums]
----
%dw 2.0
import dw::tests::Asserts
---
payload must beObject()
----

== Functions

=== anyOf

==== anyOf(matchers: Array<Matcher<Any>>): Matcher<Any>

Validates that the value satisfies at least one of the given matchers.

===== Parameters

[%header, cols="1,3"]
|===
| Name   | Description
| `matchers` | The list of matchers to be tested.
|===

===== Example

> This example shows how to assert that a value must be either an `Object` or a `String`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example shows how to assert that a value must be either an object or a string.
```

> This example shows how to assert that a value must be either an `Object` or a `String`.

Reviewer: or

```suggestion
This example shows how to assert that a value must be of type `Object` or `String`.
```

====== Source

[source,DataWeave, linenums]
----
%dw 2.0
import dw::tests::Asserts
---
"A Text" must anyOf(beObject(), beString())
----

=== beArray

==== beArray(): Matcher

Validates that a given value is of type `Array`.

===== Example

This example shows how to validate that a value is of type `Array`.

====== Source

[source,DataWeave, linenums]
----
%dw 2.0
import dw::tests::Asserts
---
[1, 4, 7] must beArray()
----

=== beBlank

==== beBlank(): Matcher<String | Null>

Validates that the `String` value is blank.

===== Example

> Validates that the `String` is empty or has whitespaces.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Validates that the string is empty or has whitespaces.
```

> Validates that the `String` is empty or has whitespaces.

Reviewer: or 

```suggestion
Validates that the `String` value is empty or has whitespaces.
```

====== Source
[source,DataWeave, linenums]
----
%dw 2.0
import dw::tests::Asserts
---
"  " must beBlank()
----

=== beBoolean

==== beBoolean(): Matcher

Validates that a given value is of type `Boolean`.

===== Example

This example shows how to validate that a value is of type `Boolean`.

====== Source

[source,DataWeave, linenums]
----
%dw 2.0
import dw::tests::Asserts
---
true must beBoolean()
----

=== beEmpty

==== beEmpty(): Matcher<String | Object | Array | Null>

> Validates that the value (String, Object, or Array) is empty.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Validates that the value (of the type `String`, `Object`, or `Array`) is empty.
```

===== Example

> Validates that the `Array` is of size `0`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Validates that the array is of size `0`.
```

Reviewer: talking about the array vs. its type, `Array`

====== Source

[source,DataWeave, linenums]
----
%dw 2.0
import dw::tests::Asserts
---
[] must beEmpty()
----

=== beGreaterThan

==== beGreaterThan(expected: Comparable, inclusive: Boolean = false): Matcher<Comparable>

> Validates that the asserted Comparable value is greater than the given one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Validates that the asserted `Comparable` value is greater than the given one.
```

The value can be equal when using the _inclusive_ argument.

===== Parameters

[%header, cols="1,3"]
|===
| Name   | Description

> | `expected` | The number to compare to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `expected` | The number to compare to.
```

> | `inclusive` | Specifies if the comparison is inclusive or not (Optional). False by default

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `inclusive` | Specifies if the comparison is inclusive or not (Optional). False by default.
```

|===

===== Example

Expects a `Number` to be greater than `2`.

====== Source

[source,DataWeave, linenums]
----
%dw 2.0
import dw::tests::Asserts
---
3 must beGreaterThan(2)
----

===== Example

> Expects a `Number` to be greater or equal than `2`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Expects a number to be greater or equal than `2`.
```

====== Source

[source,DataWeave, linenums]
----
%dw 2.0
import dw::tests::Asserts
---
3 must beGreaterThan(2, true)
----

=== beLowerThan

==== beLowerThan(expected: Comparable, inclusive: Boolean = false): Matcher<Comparable>

> Validates that the asserted Comparable value is less than the given one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Validates that the asserted `Comparable` value is less than the given value.
```

The value can be equal when using the _inclusive_ argument.

===== Parameters

[%header, cols="1,3"]
|===
| Name   | Description

> | `expected` | The number to compare to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `expected` | The number to compare to.
```

> | `inclusive` | Specifies if the comparison is inclusive or not (Optional). False by default

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `inclusive` | Specifies if the comparison is inclusive or not (Optional). False by default.
```

|===

===== Example

Expects a `Number` to be less than `2`.

====== Source

[source,DataWeave, linenums]
----
%dw 2.0
import dw::tests::Asserts
---
1 must beLowerThan(2)
----

===== Example

Expects a `Number` to be less or equal than `2`.

====== Source

[source,DataWeave, linenums]
----
%dw 2.0
import dw::tests::Asserts
---
1 must beLowerThan(2, true)
----

=== beNull

==== beNull(): Matcher

> Validates that a given value is of type Null.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Validates that a given value is of type `Null`.
```

===== Example

This example shows how to validate that a value is of type `Null`.

====== Source

[source,DataWeave, linenums]
----
%dw 2.0
import dw::tests::Asserts
---
null must beNull()
----

=== beNumber

==== beNumber(): Matcher

> Validates that a given value is of type Number.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Validates that a given value is of type `Number`.
```

===== Example

This example shows how to validate that a value is of type `Number`.

====== Source

[source,DataWeave, linenums]
----
%dw 2.0
import dw::tests::Asserts
---
123 must beNumber()
----

=== beObject

==== beObject(): Matcher

> Validates that a given value is of type Object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Validates that a given value is of type `Object`.
```

===== Example

This example shows how to validate that a value is of type `Object`.

====== Source

[source,DataWeave, linenums]
----
%dw 2.0
import dw::tests::Asserts
---
{ name : "Lionel", lastName: "Messi"} must beObject()
----

=== beOneOf

==== beOneOf(expected: Array<Any>): Matcher

> Validates that the value is contained in the given Array.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Validates that the value is contained in the given array.
```

===== Parameters

[%header, cols="1,3"]
|===
| Name   | Description

> | `expected` | The array of possible elements

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `expected` | The array of expected elements.
```

|===

===== Example

Asserts that the value is either `1` or "A Text" or `true`.

====== Source

[source,DataWeave, linenums]
----
%dw 2.0
import dw::tests::Asserts
---
1 must beOneOf([1, "A Text", true])
----

=== beString

==== beString(): Matcher

> Validates that a given value is of type String.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Validates that a given value is of type `String`.
```

===== Example

This example shows how to validate that a value is of type `String`.

====== Source

[source,DataWeave, linenums]
----
%dw 2.0
import dw::tests::Asserts
---
"A Text" must beString()
----

=== contain

==== contain(expected: String): Matcher<String>

> Validates that the asserted String contains the given String.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Validates that the asserted string contains the given string.
```

===== Parameters

[%header, cols="1,3"]
|===
| Name   | Description

> | `expected` | The expected text to be contained

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `expected` | The text expected to be contained within the input string.
```

|===

===== Example

> Expects the value to contain the `String` "ex".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Expects the value to contain the `String` value "ex".
```

====== Source
[source,DataWeave, linenums]
----
%dw 2.0
import dw::tests::Asserts
---
"A Text" must contain("ex")
----

==== contain(expected: Any): Matcher<Array<Any>>

> Validates that the asserted Array contains the given value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Validates that the asserted array contains the given value.
```

===== Parameters

[%header, cols="1,3"]
|===
| Name   | Description

> | `expected` | The expected value to be contained

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `expected` | The value expected to be in the array.
```

|===

===== Example

> Expects the `Array` value to contain the `Number` 1.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Expects the `Array` value to contain the `Number` value 1.
```

====== Source

[source,DataWeave, linenums]
----
%dw 2.0
import dw::tests::Asserts
---
[1, "A Text", true] must contain(1)
----

=== eachItem

==== eachItem(matcher: Matcher<Any>): Matcher<Array<Any>>

Validates that each item of the array satisfies the given matcher.

===== Parameters

[%header, cols="1,3"]
|===
| Name   | Description

> | `matcher` | The matcher to apply to all the elements

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `matcher` | The matcher to apply to all the elements.
```

|===

===== Example

> Expects all the elements in the `Array` to be a `Number`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Expects all the elements in the array to be a number.
```

====== Source

[source,DataWeave, linenums]
----
%dw 2.0
import dw::tests::Asserts
---
[1,2,3] must eachItem(beNumber())
----

=== endWith

==== endWith(expected: String): Matcher<String>

> Validates that the asserted String ends with the given String.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Validates that the asserted `String` value ends with the given string.
```

===== Parameters

[%header, cols="1,3"]
|===
| Name   | Description

> | `expected` | Suffix of the 'String'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `expected` | Suffix of the 'String' value.
```

|===

===== Example

> Expects the `String` to end with "xt".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Expects the `String` value to end with "xt".
```

====== Source

[source,DataWeave, linenums]
----
%dw 2.0
import dw::tests::Asserts
---
"A Text" must endWith("xt")
----

=== equalTo

==== equalTo(expected: Any, equalToConfig: { unordered?: Boolean } = {}): Matcher<Any>

Validates that a value is equal to another one.

===== Parameters

[%header, cols="1,3"]
|===
| Name   | Description

> | `expected` | The expected value

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `expected` | The expected value.
```

> | `equalToConfig` | Configuration of how to compare them

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `equalToConfig` | Configuration of how to compare them.
```

Reviewer: I won't touch that above to avoid providing a bad description, but the wording is odd.

|===

===== Example

This example shows how to assert that a value must be `equal` to `3`.

====== Source
[source,DataWeave, linenums]
----
%dw 2.0
import dw::tests::Asserts
---
(1 + 2) must equalTo(3)
----

=== equalToResource

==== equalToResource(resourceName: String, contentType: String = "application/dw", readerProperties: Object = {}): Matcher<Any>

Validates that the given value is equal to the content of a resource file.

The resource file must belong to the classpath.

===== Parameters

[%header, cols="1,3"]
|===
| Name   | Description

> | `resourceName` | The resource name

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `resourceName` | The resource name.
```

> | `contentType` | The content type of the resource (Optional)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `contentType` | The content type of the resource (Optional).
```

| `readerProperties` | An object with the config properties (Optional)
|===

===== Example

> Expects a value to be equal to the content of the resource "user.json".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Expects a value to be equal to the content of the resource `user.json`.
```

====== Source

[source,DataWeave, linenums]
----
%dw 2.0
import dw::tests::Asserts
---
{ name: "Lionel", lastName: "Messi" } must equalToResource("user.json", "application/json")
----

=== haveItem

==== haveItem(matcher: Matcher<Any>): Matcher<Array<Any>>

Validates that at least one item of the array satisfies the given matcher.

===== Parameters

[%header, cols="1,3"]
|===
| Name   | Description

> | `matcher` | The matcher to apply to at least one of the elements

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `matcher` | The matcher to apply to at least one of the elements.
```

|===

===== Example

> Expects that one element of the `Array` is a `Number`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Expects that one element of the array is a number.
```

====== Source

[source,DataWeave, linenums]
----
%dw 2.0
import dw::tests::Asserts
---
[1, true, "a text"] must haveItem(beNumber())
----

=== haveKey

==== haveKey(keyName: String): Matcher<Object>

> Validates that the Object has the given key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Validates that the object has the given key.
```

====== Source

[source,DataWeave, linenums]
----
%dw 2.0
import dw::tests::Asserts
---
{ name: "Lionel", lastName: "Messi" } must haveKey("name")
----

=== haveSize

==== haveSize(expectedSize: Number): Matcher<Array | String | Object | Null>

Validates that the array has the given size.

===== Parameters

[%header, cols="1,3"]
|===
| Name   | Description
| `expectedSize` | The expected array size
|===

===== Example

Expects that the array must be of size `3`.

====== Source

[source,DataWeave, linenums]
----
%dw 2.0
import dw::tests::Asserts
---
[1, 4, 7] must haveSize(3)
----

=== haveValue

==== haveValue(value: Any): Matcher<Object>

Validates that the Object has the given value.

===== Parameters

[%header, cols="1,3"]
|===
| Name   | Description
| `value` | The value that is expected to be present
|===

===== Example

Expected that the `Object` contains the value "Messi".

====== Source

[source,DataWeave, linenums]
----
%dw 2.0
import dw::tests::Asserts
---
{ name: "Lionel", lastName: "Messi" } must haveValue("Messi")
----

=== must

==== must<T>(value: T, matchExpressions: Array<(value: T) -> Matcher<T> | MatcherResult | Boolean>): MatcherResult

> This function allows to assert a value with with a list of Matcher or Expressions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This function enables you to assert a value with with a list of matchers or expressions.
```

or Boolean?

===== Parameters

[%header, cols="1,3"]
|===
| Name   | Description
| `value` |
| `matchExpressions` |
|===

===== Example

This example shows how to assert that a `payload` is of type `Object` and has a property `foo` that is `null`.

====== Source

[source, DataWeave,linenums]
----
%dw 2.0
import dw::tests::Asserts
---
payload must [
    beObject(),
    $.foo is Null
]
----

==== must<T>(value: T, matcher: (value: T) -> Matcher<T> | Boolean): MatcherResult

> This function allows to assert a value with a Matcher of Expressions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This function enables you to assert a value with a matcher of expressions.
```

===== Parameters

[%header, cols="1,3"]
|===
| Name   | Description

> | `value` | The value to be assert

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `value` | The value to assert.
```

> | `matcher` | The matcher to be used

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `matcher` | The matcher to use.
```

|===

===== Example

This example shows how to assert that a `payload` is of type `Object`.

====== Source

[source, DataWeave,linenums]
----
%dw 2.0
import dw::tests::Asserts
---
payload must beObject()
----

=== notBe

==== notBe<T>(matcher: Matcher<T>): Matcher<T>

Validates that the value doesn't satisfy the given matcher.

===== Parameters

[%header, cols="1,3"]
|===
| Name   | Description

> | `matcher` | The matcher that is going to be negated

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `matcher` | The matcher to negate.
```

|===

===== Example

> This example shows how to assert that a value must `not` be 2.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example shows how to assert that a value must not be equal to 2.
```

====== Source

[source,DataWeave, linenums]
----
%dw 2.0
import dw::tests::Asserts
---
1 must notBe(equalTo(2))
----

=== notBeNull

==== notBeNull(): Matcher

> Validates that a given value isn't of type Null.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Validates that a given value isn't of type `Null`.
```

===== Example

This example shows how to validate that a value is not of type `Null`.

====== Source

[source,DataWeave, linenums]
----
%dw 2.0
import dw::tests::Asserts
---
"A Text" must notBeNull()
----

=== startWith

==== startWith(expected: String): Matcher<String>

> Validates that the asserted String starts with the given String.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Validates that the asserted string starts with the given `String` value.
```

===== Parameters

[%header, cols="1,3"]
|===
| Name   | Description

> | `expected` | Prefix of the 'String'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `expected` | Prefix of the 'String' value.
```

|===

===== Example

> Validates that the `String` starts with "A".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Validates that the string starts with "A".
```

====== Source

[source,DataWeave, linenums]
----
%dw 2.0
import dw::tests::Asserts
---
"A Text" must startWith("A")
----

== Variables

=== MATCHED

Constant that represents a successful match.

== Types

=== Matcher

> Data Type that represents a Matcher to perform assertions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Data type that represents a matcher to perform assertions.
```

===== Example

====== Source

[source, DataWeave,linenums]
----
%dw 2.0
import dw::tests::Asserts

fun beEqualToOne(): Matcher<Any> =
    (actual) -> do {
        {
            matches: actual == 1,
            description: { expected: "To be 1", actual: write(actual) as String }
        }
    }
----

.Definition

[source,DataWeave,linenums]
----
(value: T) -> MatcherResult
----

=== MatcherResult

> Data Type that represents the result of an Assertion.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Data Type that represents the result of an assertion.
```
